As you saw in the last video,
LLMs are complex,
and simple evaluation metrics
like the rouge and blur scores,
can only tell you so
much about the capabilities
of your model.
In order to measure and compare
LLMs more holistically,
you can make use of
pre-existing datasets,
and associated benchmarks
that have been established by
LLM researchers specifically
for this purpose.
Selecting the right
evaluation dataset is vital,
so that you can accurately
assess an LLM's performance,
and understand its
true capabilities.
You'll find it useful
to select datasets
that isolate specific
model skills,
like reasoning or
common sense knowledge,
and those that focus
on potential risks,
such as disinformation or
copyright infringement.
An important issue
that you should
consider is whether the model
has seen your evaluation
data during training.
You'll get a more
accurate and useful sense
of the model's capabilities by
evaluating its performance on
data that it hasn't seen before.
Benchmarks, such as
GLUE, SuperGLUE,
or Helm, cover a wide range
of tasks and scenarios.
They do this by
designing or collecting
datasets that test specific
aspects of an LLM.
GLUE, or General Language
Understanding Evaluation,
was introduced in 2018.
GLUE is a collection of
natural language tasks,
such as sentiment analysis
and question-answering.
GLUE was created to
encourage the development of
models that can generalize
across multiple tasks,
and you can use the benchmark to
measure and compare
the model performance.
As a successor to GLUE,
SuperGLUE was
introduced in 2019,
to address limitations
in its predecessor.
It consists of a
series of tasks,
some of which are not
included in GLUE,
and some of which are
more challenging versions
of the same tasks.
SuperGLUE includes tasks such as
multi-sentence reasoning,
and reading comprehension.
Both the GLUE and
SuperGLUE benchmarks have
leaderboards that can be used to
compare and contrast
evaluated models.
The results page is
another great resource for
tracking the progress of LLMs.
As models get larger,
their performance against
benchmarks such as SuperGLUE
start to match human
ability on specific tasks.
That's to say that models
are able to perform as
well as humans on the
benchmarks tests,
but subjectively we can
see that they're not
performing at human level
at tasks in general.
There is essentially
an arms race between
the emergent properties of LLMs,
and the benchmarks that
aim to measure them.
Here are a couple of
recent benchmarks that
are pushing LLMs further.
Massive Multitask
Language Understanding,
or MMLU, is designed
specifically for modern LLMs.
To perform well
models must possess
extensive world knowledge
and problem-solving ability.
Models are tested on
elementary mathematics,
US history, computer science,
law, and more.
In other words,
tasks that extend
way beyond basic
language understanding.
BIG-bench currently
consists of 204 tasks,
ranging through linguistics,
childhood development,
math, common sense
reasoning, biology,
physics, social bias, software
development and more.
BIG-bench comes in
three different sizes,
and part of the
reason for this is to
keep costs achievable,
as running these
large benchmarks can
incur large inference costs.
A final benchmark you
should know about is
the Holistic Evaluation of
Language Models, or HELM.
The HELM framework aims to
improve the
transparency of models,
and to offer guidance
on which models
perform well for specific tasks.
HELM takes a
multimetric approach,
measuring seven metrics
across 16 core scenarios,
ensuring that trade-offs between
models and metrics
are clearly exposed.
One important feature of
HELM is that it assesses
on metrics beyond basic
accuracy measures,
like precision of the F1 score.
The benchmark also
includes metrics
for fairness, bias,
and toxicity,
which are becoming increasingly
important to assess as
LLMs become more capable of
human-like language generation,
and in turn of exhibiting
potentially harmful behavior.
HELM is a living benchmark
that aims to continuously evolve
with the addition of new
scenarios, metrics, and models.
You can take a look at
the results page to
browse the LLMs that
have been evaluated,
and review scores that are
pertinent to your
project's needs.